---
id: E973A40B-C09B-41DC-84E4-93405420CB15
title: "Xamarin.Forms 1.2.1"
---

## Enhancements

- `Page.DisplayAlert()` now has an overload to specify a single button.
- `Page.Icon`, `ToolbarItem.Icon` and `NavigationPage.TitleIcon` are now `FileImageSource`.
- `MultiPage<T>` now has a `CurrentPageChanged` event.
- `Editor` now has a `Completed` event.
- `Button.BorderWidth` is now a `double`.
- `NavigationPage` now has `BarTextColor` and `BarBackgroundColor` which replaces `Tint`.
- `VisualElement` now provides `TranslationX` and `TranslationY`.
- [XAML] `OnPlatform` can now be used with `Image.Source` without having to specify `FileImageSource`.
- [XAML] {Binding} can now be used to create the binding for `ListView.GroupDisplayBinding` (rather than applying a binding to the GroupDisplayBinding property.)
- [Binding] Bindings now will automatically convert types where possible.
- VisualElement now supports TranslateX and TranslateY. These properties allow you to translate a view post layout, enabling easy creation of slide-in/slide-out style effects for views without having to write a custom layout.

### Fonts
- Font properties are now exposed.
- FontAttributes has been introduced starting with Bold and Italic.
- BoldSystemFontOfSize is now deprecated in favor of SystemFontOfSize which uses FontAttributes.

## Fixes

- `CancelAnimations` should now properly cancel `LayoutTo`, `TranslateTo`, `RotateYTo` and `RotateXTo`.
- [Binding] Bindings now respect a `null` or `String.Empty` property name from `INotifyPropertyChanged` as an update to all properties.
- [XAML] x:Reference and x:StaticResource may now be used before the referenced item is declared.
- [XAML] Single `Grid` column/row definitions in XAML are now properly respected.
- [XAML] Literals are now parsed with `InvariantCulture`.
- [XAML] A code-behind field will no longer be generated for `ToolbarItem.Name`.
- [Android] `PushModal` and `PopModal` now animate.
- [Android] `Context` is valid after Init() has been called.
- [Android] `Button.BackgroundColor` no longer leaks memory.
- [Android] Bindings before `SetPage()` is called should no longer throw `NullReferenceException`.
- [iOS] `ListView` will no longer scroll to the top of the page when the `SelectedItem` is cleared.
- [iOS] `Label` will now revert to the default font if the given one could not be found, instead of crashing.
- [iOS] `ListView.HasUnevenRows` now properly respected.
- [WP] `EntryCell` now properly respects `Disabled`.
- [WP] `ScrollView` horizontal scrolling now works properly.
