---
id: C2C56204-C449-4887-881B-5AAE73702F4F
title: "Xamarin.iOS for Visual Studio 1.3"
---

Xamarin.iOS for Visual Studio 1.3 contains numerous bug fixes from the past three months.

# Bug fixes

-  Fixed #12228 VS breakpoint watch variable name 'truncates'
-  Stop Multiple toolbars from appearing in non-English Visual Studio.
-  Fix to stop Maps being included into info.plist when nothing is selected.
-  Removed Keyboard shortcuts for Publish iOS/Android. Make X Keyboard shortcut for Xamarin Account.
-  StatusBar Helper needs to be initialised before any checks, to avoid NullReference Exceptions
-  Remove GooglePlay Icon again from Publish iOS Application.
-  New UpdatesDialog now shows updates for both iOS and Android and allows individual downloads and installs.
-  Fixed #9631 Upgrade workflow shown when used selects Tools->Options->Xamarin->iOS Settings page 
-  Fixed #9702 BonjourService not being detected and uninstalled correctly
-  Fixed #8735 MTVS Toolbar does not stay closed.
-  Fixed #12235 After Delete Breakpoint Mono.Debugging still calling the breakpoint events
-  Fixed #11961 When a breakpoint is removed execution still stops at it
-  Fixed #10918 / #11160 Static classes are unknown during debugging an iOS app in Visual Studio
-  Fixed #12222 Fail to Launch the Debugger after Change the Active Platform
-  Fixed #11744 [VS] When user add image to resources folder it displayed Build Action to Content.
-  Fixed #11468 Support BundleResource Content build actions on DLL build
-  Fixed #10979 Can not stop debugging if iOS closes app while paused
-  Fixed #9797 #11326 iOS for VS generates invalid exe names
-  Fixed #12359 Interoperability of Component Store Components between Xamarin Studio on OS X and Visual Studio
-  Fixed #11052 User shouldn't be allowed to attempt to add .dlls / .exes from Android Designer package to a VS Android project
-  Fixed #11515 Added Conditional and HitCount breakpoint support
-  Fixed #9076 Hide the "Use Starter Edition" in Visual Studio
-  Fixed #10530 Package APK option disabled
-  Many debugging enhancements
-  Added progress status messages and animation during the build/debug.
-  Added Log file to Android VS. (%LOCALAPPDATA%\Xamarin\Log\)
-  Fixed SyncContext exception in BuildServerDialogBase
-  Fixed visual Studio Hang when opening a project
-  Replaced "No valid Device" message box, the error now appears in the Error List.
-  Updated the error reporting to use the ErrorList rather than the previous Error Dialog.
-  Do not allow diagnostics without host selected, fixes xambug #9706
-  Shortcut folder names are no longer used by the installer. Fixes xambug #12250
-  Fixes to make MTVS compatible with Xcode 4.6.2
-  Satellite assemblies are uploaded to the build server. Fixes xambug #11158
-  F# targets and assemblies (CodeDOM) added to the installers
-  Fixed #11803 the ‘'Mono' has exited with code 0 (0x0).’ issue when debugging.
-  Fixed #10039. Better exception catch generated by Xamarin Bonjour Service malfunction.
-  Removed the iOS standard configurations for the Xamarin.iOS Library Project template.
-  Fixed #11291 Added support for the iOS Build Actions.
-  Fixed #11896 Added support for PNGCrush option.
-  Fixed #9775 Not able to connect to build Host. Connection button is greyed out.
-  Minor performance enhancements for the Android Log Viewer when in Text mode
-  Several improvements on the PList Editor:
-           
-  Improved panels arrangement
-  Better auto-sizable behavior when clicking Toggle button. 
-  Added Entitlements panel
-  Fixed a bug on Map Interaction panel
-  Added support for opening both Info.plist and Entitlements.plist files from inside the Visual Studio (outside of the Project Property Page)
-  Added a designer for editing Info.plist and Entitlements.plist from Visual Studio
-  Fixed #12166 regarding toe Portrait Device orientation option 
-  Fixed #11888 Supported custom name for Launch Images
-  Fixed #11915 Added Status Bar options for both iPhone and iPad Deployment Info panels
