---
id: 0EDA40C7-8613-EF0A-BD9E-56EA3F6C3B7A
title: "Preview 3"
---

&nbsp;

 **This preview has a new shared runtime. To ensure you are using it, you will need to delete the old shared runtime from your emulator/device:**

 **Settings -&gt; Applications -&gt; Manage Applications -&gt; MonoDroid Runtime -&gt; Uninstall**

 **The new runtime will be deployed to the device the next time an application is deployed.**

 <a name="Bug_Fixes_/_Enhancements" class="injected"></a>


# Bug Fixes / Enhancements

-  638437 - Activity.OnActivityResult() takes int, but should be Android.App.Result 
-  638972  <span title="Class Libraries">-</span> .mdb file from class library project is not copied to output directory 
-  638500 - Remove Android.Runtime.Logger?
-  638714 - LocalReference to IRunnableAdapter not getting released
-  638716 - DeleteLocalRef warning for CharSequence
-  638998 - Can't subclass BaseAdapter, monodroid.exe complains getView is not overridden 
-  633146 - MonoDroid Projects do not appear in the German Edition of VS.NET 2010 
-  639499  <span title="Tools">-</span> MonoDroid errors not visible in the output Window 
-  632611 - Application name is that of the activity class, not specified name 
-  633675  <span title="Tools">-</span> Compiling a ArrayList adapter produces incorrect intermediate java code 
-  638708 - monodroid exited with code 1 in release mode
-  631301 - Support for XML Activation of managed subclasses
-  637192 - R.cs needs to be clearly marked as "generated by a tool"
-  638769  <span title="Tools">-</span> Move R.cs to R.designer.cs in Resources folder 


 <a name="Breaking_API_Changes" class="injected"></a>


# Breaking API Changes

On top of the usual bug fixes, we are slowly making changes to the
Mono.Android API to make it more .NET-ish and easier to use. Unfortunately, as
pre-release users, this means you may be forced to change your code to the new
API.

 <a name="[Activity]_Attribute" class="injected"></a>


## [Activity] Attribute

In previous releases, monodroid.exe would generate `<activity/>` elements within `AndroidManifest.xml`for *all* [Activity](http://docs.monodroid.net/index.aspx?link=T%3aAndroid.App.Activity) subclasses. This is no longer the case.

We are trying to remove any need to manually edit the AndroidManifest.xml
file. This release adds support for an [ActivityAttribute](http://docs.monodroid.net/index.aspx?link=T%3aAndroid.App.ActivityAttribute) attribute that allows you to specify the
options you want to end up in the `<activity/>` element of the
manifest file, and `monodroid.exe` will *only* generate `<activity/>` elements for types with the `[Activity]` attribute.

See [http://monodroid.net/Tutorials/Working_with_AndroidManifest.xml](http://android.xamarin.com/Tutorials/Working_with_AndroidManifest.xml)
for details.

If you find a case where you cannot get the desired results for
AndroidManifest.xml with the [Activity] attribute, please let us know.

 <a name="R_class_-&gt;_Resource_class" class="injected"></a>


## R class -&gt; Resource class

The autogenerated "R" class is now called "Resource" to match .Net
conventions.
