---
id: 0F0D2CBE-1FD5-4B42-9A1C-F673EBC8714C
title: "Xamarin.Forms 1.3.0 pre4"
---

## New API
- MasterBehavior.Default added to MasterBehavior enum. This is now the default setting of MasterBehavior for a MasterDetailPage. It represents the pre 1.3.0 behavior of a MasterDetailPage. Resolves issue where some peoples apps would get an exception in 1.3.0.
- Add MasterDetailPage.ShouldShowToolbarButton method to enable control over the appearance of the toolbar button.

## Bug Fixes

### Core
- Fix stack overflow when pressing back on some pages with TabbedPage.
- SetValue now properly overrides settings from a Style when the Style is applied later.
- Grid now has more nuanced reflow logic for things like labels. This fixes some cases where grid would end up either too small or too large for its content.
- Serialization/Deserialization of Properties in Application no longer fails if the new Dictionary is smaller than the old Dictionary.
- Fix crash in XAML with DataTemplates and event subscription.

### Android
- Pressing back and re-entering the app now cleans up the old Activity and associated renderers. This fixes both memory leak issues and some crashes.

### iOS
- Fix a case where the keyboard could end up overlapping the input area.
- Mixing swipe to go back and press to go back no longer results in a blank page.
- ContextAction More/Cancel buttons now translate properly

### WinPhone
- Fix crash when pressing back button with active ActionSheet.
- TableView no longer selects wrong item when in Landscape mode.
- OpenUriAction now uses LaunchUriAsync.
- ViewCell with a Picker no longer occasionally occludes other elements on screen.

